Cloud Run is a managed compute platform that enables you to run stateless containers that are invocable via HTTP requests. Cloud Run is serverless: it abstracts away all infrastructure management, so you can focus on what matters most — building great applications.
Cloud Run is built from Knative, letting you choose to run your containers either fully managed with Cloud Run, or in your Google Kubernetes Engine cluster with Cloud Run on GKE.
The goal of this lab is for you to build a simple containerized application image and deploy it to Cloud Run.



- Objectives
In this lab, you learn to:

Enable the Cloud Run API.
Create a simple Node.js application that can be deployed as a serverless, stateless container.
Containerize your application and upload to Container Registry (now called "Artifact Registry.")
Deploy a containerized application on Cloud Run.
Delete unneeded images to avoid incurring extra storage charges.
Setup and requirements
For each lab, you get a new Google Cloud project and set of resources for a fixed time at no cost.


Sign in to Qwiklabs using an incognito window.


Note the lab's access time (for example, 1:15:00), and make sure you can finish within that time.
There is no pause feature. You can restart if needed, but you have to start at the beginning.


When ready, click Start lab.
Note your lab credentials (Username and Password). You will use them to sign in to the Google Cloud Console.
Click Open Google Console.

Click Use another account and copy/paste credentials for this lab into the prompts.
If you use other credentials, you'll receive errors or incur charges.

Accept the terms and skip the recovery resource page.

Note: Do not click End Lab unless you have finished the lab or want to restart it. This clears your work and removes the project.

How to start your lab and sign in to the Console
Click the Start Lab button. If you need to pay for the lab, a pop-up opens for you to select your payment method. On the left is a panel populated with the temporary credentials that you must use for this lab.

Credentials panel

Copy the username, and then click Open Google Console. The lab spins up resources, and then opens another tab that shows the Choose an account page.

Note: Open the tabs in separate windows, side-by-side.
On the Choose an account page, click Use Another Account. The Sign in page opens.

Choose an account dialog box with Use Another Account option highlighted 

Paste the username that you copied from the Connection Details panel. Then copy and paste the password.

Note: You must use the credentials from the Connection Details panel. Do not use your Google Cloud Skills Boost credentials. If you have your own Google Cloud account, do not use it for this lab (avoids incurring charges).
Click through the subsequent pages:
Accept the terms and conditions.
Do not add recovery options or two-factor authentication (because this is a temporary account).
Do not sign up for free trials.
After a few moments, the Cloud console opens in this tab.




Note: You can view the menu with a list of Google Cloud Products and Services by clicking the Navigation menu at the top-left. Cloud Console Menu
Activate Google Cloud Shell
Google Cloud Shell is a virtual machine that is loaded with development tools. It offers a persistent 5GB home directory and runs on the Google Cloud.

Google Cloud Shell provides command-line access to your Google Cloud resources.

In Cloud console, on the top right toolbar, click the Open Cloud Shell button.

Highlighted Cloud Shell icon

Click Continue.

It takes a few moments to provision and connect to the environment. When you are connected, you are already authenticated, and the project is set to your PROJECT_ID. For example:

Project ID highlighted in the Cloud Shell Terminal

gcloud is the command-line tool for Google Cloud. It comes pre-installed on Cloud Shell and supports tab-completion.

You can list the active account name with this command:
gcloud auth list
Copied!
Output:

Credentialed accounts:
 - @.com (active)
Example output:

Credentialed accounts:
 - google1623327_student@qwiklabs.net
You can list the project ID with this command:
gcloud config list project
Copied!
Output:

[core]
project = 
Example output:

[core]
project = qwiklabs-gcp-44776a13dea667a6
